Add Rohit LFX 2021 Spring blog report (#29)
wayfair-tremor/tremor-www-main: content/blog/2021-07-06-Blog-Rohit-PropTest.md

> ### Introduction

Reviewer: We'll need a blog header at the beginning

Hey, I am Rohit from India, about to complete my undergrad in CSE and will be working as a Software Engineer soon. I will be sharing my expereince at Tremor :)

### Main motivation for applying

My work involved writing "Property-based tests for tremor-script" and some of the reasons for applying are:

- It involved a new type of testing I never heard of
- Be part of a sandbox project where I can learn and grow with the community
- The concept of learning Erlang + Rust was very interesting to me and frankly out of my comfort zone, as a person used to Python and web development in general.

### New concepts I learned specific to my work

- Erlang and Rust
    - My work mostly revolved around Erlang and a little Rust and I was completely new to this ecosystem, it didn't help to not find much resources or actively accessible community for Erlang.

>     - I took this as a challenge and went through [various resources to learn Erlang](https://github.com/diru1100/learn_erlang), functional programming in general and I was able to see why this Language was involved to do the task at handi, [my mentor](https://twitter.com/heinz_gies) is very passionate about Erlang and shared his thought-process, experience which helped me broaden my knowledge and how to approach any concept while learning something completely new.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - I took this as a challenge and went through [various resources to learn Erlang](https://github.com/diru1100/learn_erlang), functional programming in general and I was able to see why this Language was involved to do the task at hand, [my mentor](https://twitter.com/heinz_gies) is very passionate about Erlang and shared his thought-process, experience which helped me broaden my knowledge and how to approach any concept while learning something completely new.
```

- Tremor-script

>     - It is an interpreted expression-oriented language designed for the filtering, extraction, transformation and streaming of structured data in a stream or event-based processing system which is explicitly turing incomplete used to easily write programs specific to Tremor which is written.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - It is an interpreted expression-oriented language designed for the filtering, extraction, transformation and streaming of structured data in a stream or event-based processing system which is explicitly turing incomplete used to easily write programs specific to Tremor for which is written.
```

    - It is written using Rust but tested using Erlang
- Property based testing
    - We have seen various types of testing approaches like Unit testing, Integration testing, End2End testing etc.
    - The purpose of tests is to check if our code is failing anywhere and test the same with various inputs.
    - Fig 1 shows different types of tests to easily understand which features are specialise in what

        ![](/img/blog/LFC-blog-diru/tests-comparison-graph.png)

        Fig 1. Showing various tests wrt Feature compilance and Input scope covered [1]

>     - Property based testing takes a new appraoch which has the right balance of randomness and examples. They also have this nice feature of called shrinking which shows a simple version of sample input which is failing your tests. As in all PropTest is not an ideal solution to use everywhere but it fits our use-case here i.e testing features of a custom-language.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Property based testing takes a new appraoch which has the right balance of randomness and examples. They also have this nice feature called shrinking which shows a simple version of sample input which is failing your tests. As with all things property based testing is not an ideal solution to use everywhere but it fits our use-case here i.e. testing features of a custom-language.
```

    - Some of the resources I kept below may help understand PropTest better

### Property Based testing in tremor-script

- PropTest is implemented using [EQC](http://quviq.com/documentation/eqc/)
- Quickcheck is the original library written for Haskell to do property based testing ( similar to xUnit for unit-tests) and EQC is the Erlang version of it

> - Erlang quickcheck or EQC is thte version used here

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Erlang quickcheck or EQC is the version used here
```

    - Implemented by QuviQ

>     - Free version is quickcheck mini

Reviewer: A link would be wonderful where people could get each mini

> - Used to do PropTest

Reviewer: I would ask to avoid 'PropTest' it read like a specific product and adds more jargon which makes the post harder to understand, can we stick with spelling out property based testing

    - Property is an abstraction of a test case
    - Properties are written in erlang in tremor
- The files shown in Fig 2 make the [eqc part of Tremor](https://github.com/tremor-rs/tremor-runtime/tree/main/tremor-script/eqc)

    ![](/img/blog/LFC-blog-diru/eqc-files.png)

    Fig 2. Files related to eqc

>     - **gen_script:** This file contains functions which create the structure of the expected expression for a partticular feature/operation that we will be testing in tremor-script

Reviewer: Should read gen_script.eel for consistency with the others
